---
year: 4
title: Journal
description:
assetdir: /assets/studio/2024-10-22-y4wk4
cover:
---

I have been exploring various things related to my proposal.

The fact that researching myself is in fact a staged event and not genuine. I also have no reason not to explore the way I explore how I explore. There are many levels to it.

# Research about sound
## Essays by Francisco López
Related to my essay topic, I have been researching on sound and presentness. I have been reading essays by Francisco López and I find them very interesting.

- Sonic Creatures
    - Very interesting essay about abstracting sound away from the “source” and putting it on the same ontological “reality level” as the being it came from. This can be related to being present and connected with the world. The essay argues this is to see sound as more it's own thing, but not a way to isolate it in a void.
- Against the Stage
    - An exploration of the separation of the visually technical and the sound, especially for electronic music. Think about why we feel the need for visual elements in sound performance.
- Environmental Sound Matter
    - Discusses the capturing of the “sound matter” of a place as its own individual entity, without abstracting different components (often animal sounds) over a backdrop of the other sounds. Instead hearing it for what it is as it’s own whole. Also discusses that it is never an attempt to capture “reality” as that is not possible given differing microphones and editing and the temporal decision of being there.

## Ableton experimentation
I used an old recording I made whilst in the Lake District and used a grandulator on it with a midi controller with CC knobs, then cutting the "performance" up and abstracting the parts I liked. I made a short audio file, just an experiment.

<audio controls src="{{ page.assetdir }}/experiment.mp3"></audio>

## "Field" Recordings
I have done two recordings using my small Zoom H1n microphone.

### 25:31:12 hours in my bedroom
I haven't the energy to go out and I often find myself stuck in my bedroom, which ultimately isn't a place I feel at home in and it encourages bad habits such as sleeping my life away. I decided to record the audio over a span of 24 hours, inspired by the "Environmental Sound Matter" essay by López. I wanted to hear what a "floating ear" above my bed headboard would hear. Complete with snoring, singing, flatulation, creaky door hinges, cars outside my window. I haven't got around to it, but I planned to abstract the sounds at parts and manipulate them into something entirely different that resonates with an emotion I am trying to represent. I had struggled with acting "normal" while being observed by this microphone, which I dont think is possible unless I set it up and then somehow completely forget it. 
### 32:65 minutes of a spot in Pollock park
On a need for air and time to think, I walked to a spot in Pollock park where the rays were shining through the trees.  I wanted to capture the sound matter of the location whilst I was writing and thinking. At first, I felt the pressure of being observed again, I had a particularly runny nose that day and I didn't want to sniffle as that would be heard, but I eventually gave in. It's natural. 

# Being observed and pressure
Throughout all of this, I have thought that the research and experiments I am doing is as much about me as anything else. That maybe my research needs to be researched and then that needs to be researched. When I am observing myself in a space, it does ruin it, it renders it an unnatural "unrealistic" way of me in the space. 

I find myself under pressure to use personal and intimate parts of my life as a resource for art. When I am crying, I sometimes wonder how I can turn this into art. I often have a saying in my head that if an experience is bad, that that makes interesting art. It's not the best way of thinking. 

Ultimately since this project is about me, the process is also me. I cannot be an outside perspective. Rambling. I think it's important to realise this anyway.

# Research into light
## DMX Lighting
I borrowed a DMX light and a USB ENTTEC adapter and played around with how it works. I made a Processing sketch that control the light with a nice system I made. I can send commands that can lerp between colours throughout a specified "life time" with any easing/curve I want. I also made it so multiple of these can be sent and overlapped, with the colours being mixed into one output on the light. For example, a pulsing light linked to a midi note can be played whilst another command is running a gradual change from one colour to another. Next to explore is adding another light and seeing if the system I made in mind for multiple lights will work. I am not sure how addressing works with multiple lights but we'll see.

<video width="100%" height="auto" title="Light experiment" controls>
    <source src="{{ page.assetdir }}/lightexperiment.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

I borrowed another DMX light that can pan around and rotate upwards. Though, a problem with this light is that I cannot do custom RGB colours, they are set to discrete options. I experimented with it and connected it to VCV Rack 2 (I tried Ableton but it wasn't having it!).

<video width="100%" height="auto" title="Light experiment 2" controls>
    <source src="{{ page.assetdir }}/lightexperiment2.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>
